# SE 101 Week 2: How to Student

## Course Syllabi

The syllabus works like a contract between the instructor and the
class about how the class is going to be run. Key parts of a syllabus
include:

* instructor contact info (when, where, how)
* list of topics
* grading scheme and due dates

In the future, you will have electives. Syllabi can help you decide whether
to take a particular elective or not (e.g. by evaluating the workload and
what you'll get out of it).

## This Course's Syllabus

Goals: Focus on soft skills, not hard skills. Understand the engineering profession.

You can get course resources on git. 

### How universities work ($$$)

The University of Waterloo's income for 2017/18 shows total income of $716MM;
$232MM is grants and $425MM is tuition (almost 60%). Expenses of $511MM on
salary and benefits (thanks!) and $53MM on student support.

In Canada, provincial governments are responsible for directly funding
education.  Ontario's grant to the University of Waterloo dropped by
$1,684 per student between 1995 and
2001. (http://policyalternatives.ca/sites/default/files/uploads/publications/Ontario_Office_Pubs/university_funding_cuts.pdf)

### How the SE programme works

Software Engineering is jointly offered by the David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science 
and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.

We have strong support from both CS and ECE, but we are not independent; we exist because of
the cooperation between these units. This is not obvious to students, so that it's not so
different to be an SE student rather than a CE student, but we don't have e.g. final say over
hiring new faculty, or over space; we need to get buy-in from both CS and ECE for such changes.

### How many SE students graduate

Recently, between 80 and 110. Outlier: class of 2018 = 144! Total graduated = 1123.

### How grades work in Waterloo Engineering

In terms of term promotion decisions, we follow Engineering rules. 50% is a pass in a
course, but you need a term average of 59.5% to pass the term.

### How SE students work after graduation

From the class of 2018: 

* Where? 4% Waterloo, 11% Ontario ex-Waterloo, 3% Canada ex-Ontario, 80% USA

* PEng anticipated? Yes = 16%, no = 84%

* Next step? 88% full-time engineering; 4% full-time non-engineering; 3% grad school

* Starting base salary? US = C$150k, Canada = $94k

* Would recommend SE? 52% strongly agree, 36% agree, 8% neutral, 3% disagree/strongly disagree

### How bodies work

Sleep, eat, exercise.

### How etiquette works

You are in close quarters with 125 people for 8 hours a day.
Best practice is to shower regularly and avoid emitting heavy scents (BO or cologne).

* Hallways: Walk left, stand right.
* Classroom doors: Wait till the previous class is almost all out before entering.
* Phones: Silent mode.
* Laptops in class: No moving pictures on screens in front.

### How to write emails

Best to use your edu.uwaterloo.ca account.

> Dear Prof. X,
>
> I am a student in the SE section of your ECE 105 class. I would like to make an appointment to ask questions about squirrel mechanics. I am available on Wednesdays at 11:30 and Mondays at 2:30; if either of those times do not work for you, you can find my schedule here:
>
> https://uwaterloo.ca/software-engineering/sites/ca.software-engineering/files/uploads/files/1aschedule_0.pdf
>
> Thank you,
>
> Y (ID xxx)

### How to use office hours

Talk to people!

### How to not plagiarize

You can look at others' code but close the computer with the code before you write anything down.

### How to ask for help

Talk to: your instructors, TAs, program administration (me, Derek), Student Success Office, AccessAbility.

### How to not be crushed by failure

Failure's OK.

### Who are the people at a university?

* Students: undergraduate (you), graduate
* TAs: graduate and undergraduate students
* Professors: teach and do research
* Staff: keep the university running
